hi what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose so I've got
an iPad pro 2018 which I've been using
for basically everything University
related for my second year on medical
school and I absolutely love it it's
completely changed the way that I take
my notes that I organized everything to
do with my university life and I
couldn't say more positive things about
it now this whole time for my
note-taking app I've been using
notability and I found it to be a really
good app for taking notes for organizing
all my different lectures tutorials case
based discussions etc it's just been an
overall great user experience however I
know that there's another app called
good notes 5 that a lot of people use
and they're sort of this matchup between
notability and good notes 5 so what I
decided to do was for a whole week of
lectures tutorials and case based
discussions I was gonna solely use good
notes 5 in order to test out the good
notes experience and then make this
video comparing the two I guess this is
the equivalent of techy youtubers
putting their sim card in the brand new
phone that they're reviewing so without
further ado these are the good and bad
things about good notes 5 and how they
compare to notes ability just so you
guys have an idea of what my notes look
like generally on notability this is one
of my immune system lectures and
basically what I try and do is write
things in three different columns as you
can see with the words in blue being
those headings of different slides and
then underneath that all the different
information what I want to point out is
I tend to include a lot of different
images and screenshots of lecture slides
in my notes and that's something that's
really really important to me because I
can copy them over
I can annotate them using different
colors I can manipulate the image and
that saves me a lot of time from having
to redraw out all these different things
alright so let's switch over to good
notes and take a look at that app so
starting off with the good things about
good notes 5 and trust me there were a
lot of things that I actually really
enjoyed I will love any feature that
saves me time for example the first
thing that you'll notice is over here in
the top right you have three different
colors that are permanently set over
there in the top bar and of course you
can change these to whatever you want
let's say I want to put red here I can
put green here this is very very useful
because when I'm writing a note usually
I'll make my titles in blue right so
let's say title of slide and then I want
to switch to gray if gray was one of my
set colors up here then in just one
click I can switch to my grey pen and
continue writing
notability I spend so much time for
example if I'm writing and then I want
to switch colors I have to go to Orange
then if I want to switch colors back I
need to go here and go to blue for my
headings it takes time you might think
that these small clicks aren't important
but if you're doing hundreds and
hundreds of those clicks per day per
lecture that you're writing but it
really adds up so I really like the fact
that there are some permanent colors at
the top of good notes five I personally
think that's a fantastic idea
the second amazing time-saving tool on
good notes five is their rubber function
which as you can see here it has an auto
deselect function so what that means is
that when you click the rubber and you
decide to rub out something for example
I just rub down that line as soon as I'm
done rubbing it out it switches back to
the pen which is again such a good
efficiency and time-saving thing let's
say I'm writing hello and I accidentally
misspelled it and write hello you click
once on the rubber once on the a and
it's already back to the pen and I can
write hello properly while the notes
ability but say I was writing hello and
I misspelled it oh god that's disgusting
let's try that again let's say I was
writing hello and I misspelled it I'd
have to go up to the rubber erase the a
go back to the pen and then continue my
spelling again you might think that
these things don't take up time but
really I'm doing this action over here
maybe hundreds and hundreds of times a
day and I do want to point out that I
know about the double tapping of the
Apple pencil to switch between the pen
and the eraser but personally for me
this feature just does not work well
it's actually such a slow thing to be
writing then stop reorient your pen to
find that little flat part double tap
erase and double tap again switch back I
find it very slow I don't think it's a
good feature and it just doesn't work
for me okay so the next thing that I
want to talk about in good notes is
image manipulation image importing and
stuff like that I find their image
manipulation software way way way better
than notability so for example let's say
I'm here and I want to import a
screenshot that I just took for the sake
of this video that screenshot some of my
notes in notability i screenshot them
here let's say I go back to good notes
where is that perfect so now of course I
can drag and drop like this but
sometimes that little thing in the
disappears after a little bit of time I
don't quite get there so that's just a
meets it for now say I was writing I
want to import a picture so you go up to
this image tab over here an already
right here in the top right corner you
can see all of my most recent images and
so it's very easy for me to quickly
identify this one over here as the
screenshot that I just took I tap it
once and it's already imported into my
good notes file and also notice how
quick that import was because I'm going
to compare it to notes ability later
look at how instant that import is super
super fast I can easily manipulate it
from the corner I can make it bigger
smaller I can rotate it and if I want to
crop it as well I can just tap on the
picture click crop here and
automatically make it bigger or smaller
as I wish click done and that's done
really quickly so the image manipulation
in goodnotes is so much better also pay
attention to the fact that here is this
image there's no white borders as you
will see there is in notability if I put
the picture here there's no white
borders over here around the image
there's nothing there which is really
really great in comparison to all of
this let me show you how notability
works so notability let's say I want to
import that exact same screenshot that I
just took let's find some white space
here so in order to import an image here
you need to go to the plus and then you
need to go to photo then you need to go
to recently added they need to click
your image and look at how long it takes
to import again not an objectively long
period of time but when you're doing
this hundreds of times a day it all
really adds up and look at this white
space that it leaves behind it next to
the writing you see this over here I
dislike this a lot it leaves this white
border around the image when you import
it into notability now if I want to and
manipulate this image first of all you
have to switch to this T tab up here so
from the pen to the T and then you can
click on the image and manipulate it and
in order to manipulate it as you can see
every time I move it there's this
lagging period whereas in goodnotes 5
there's absolutely none of this it just
immediately moves around on top of that
if I want to crop this image which I
always want to crop the screenshot so
that I take look at the process I have
to do so I've imported the image after
hit edit go up here to the cropping tool
crop as I wish then hit done again it's
such a slow process and once I move it
you'll see that there are the
white borders still all around the image
so yeah image manipulation and
notability I think is probably one of
its worst features I wish that they
would improve it and I'm sure they will
in the future update but it's definitely
something to keep in mind all right
now let's talk about the highlighting
tool and good notes just for comparison
let me show you guys the highlighting
tool in notability first so here's my
highlighter I've selected this light
blue color if I want to highlight this
sentence down here I can do so and it
basically just gives you a free range
transparent color that you can draw over
your notes so it doesn't really stick to
the words that you've written it doesn't
really make a straight line it's sort of
just like the pen but it's translucent
or transparent now if I move over it's a
good notes five you'll see how much
better the highlighting feature is there
when you highlight a sentence it
automatically straightens it out as you
can see it makes a nice straight line
that just stew the heights of your notes
and your writing and I find this so much
better look if I don't draw the
straightest of lines it'll automatically
straighten it and I find that so useful
it just looks so much more neat and it
looks better and it's easier to go
through the notes ability so if you're
someone who highlights a ton then yeah I
would definitely go with good notes five
and then let's talk about something
that's actually really important if you
take a look at my notes ability you'll
see that I have something like 300
different files in here let me see at
the very top 337 different files so
there's a lot of different notes that
I've taken here over the last couple of
months and there's a lot of information
to search through so for example if I
wanted to search for a lecture on kidney
diseases and glomerular Mel Euler
nephritis okay let's say I wanted to
search I've searched glomerular alright
and let's see what comes up no results
found okay fine let's search kidney okay
so it gives me searches of the titles of
lectures so anything that's written in
text the amazing thing about good notes
find is that it searches within the
handwritten notes that you've made which
I just think is absolutely incredible so
for example here you can see that my
handwriting is pretty horrible it's
definitely not neat by any means but
let's say that I want to search for this
word here attention all right let's see
if it'll find it
honestly how incredible is that if you
ask me this word does not look like
tension yeah good notes still manages to
find those words I'm honestly quite
happy that I found some of the words
previously when I had been searching
through my notes I could never find what
I wanted so it's actually good to see so
I guess the searching of the handwritten
notes does work but not as good as a
good notes 5 all right so those are some
of the things that I really enjoyed
while using good notes 5 now let me talk
about some of the things that I don't
like as much so first things first as
you'll see while I'm scrolling through
this page here there's just like a
noticeable line you can see that some
pictures and images take a while to load
it's not smooth when you're scrolling
when you're moving around and
manipulating this software different
parts of the page load at different
times I'm gonna be staring at this app
and using it all day I want to make sure
that it's fluid that it's moving nicely
and that I don't feel like there's any
interruptions when I'm using the app so
that's the first not so great thing
about good notes fine now the second
thing and this probably isn't too major
for a lot of people is that it just kind
of looks outdated to me I don't know
about you but all these icons at the top
here it feels like this was an app that
was made a couple of years ago and they
haven't updated it and made it for the
modern era but yeah just to me it kind
of looks out of date now something
important that I noticed while using
goodnotes 5 for about a week is that my
handwriting was a lot more messy on
goodnotes 5 I don't know why so let's
see if I can demonstrate this
what is that sentence that includes
every letter of the alphabet the quick
brown fox jumps over something anyway
there's the quick brown fox I mean I
don't think it looks particularly good
in fact I'm sure you guys will let me
know how bad my handwriting is in the
comments but let's see if I can rewrite
this here the quick fox I mean you guys
probably won't be able to tell too much
of a difference the thing that I noticed
in good notes is that it sort of takes
your lines that you draw and it sort of
changes them either straightens them or
makes them a little bit less squiggly or
something like that and I found that
notability does the same but they do
them to a different extent when I'm
writing on a good notes it feels like
I'm using my pen to write on a very
slippery surface of glass which is
obviously what the iPad is but it makes
it seem a lot more slippery as if I
don't have enough
traction and control with the pen
whereas when I'm writing on notability
it feels a little bit more like my
handwriting is on a piece of paper not
in the tactile feel between the pen and
the ipad obviously because it's the same
in both cases but in good notes while my
handwriting looks like is that it's like
sliding across the page a lot more so as
grippy almost if that makes sense I'm
not sure how they manage to simulate
that with software but that is the end
result that I end up feeling so yeah I'd
say that my handwriting looks a little
bit better on notability and it doesn't
feel like my pen is slipping around on
the page as much the next thing that I
want to mention in good notes is sort of
their hierarchical structure or
organization of the notes so in good
notes how it works is that you have
these sort of you have these folders
over here and then you have these files
within them and then within the files
you have all these different pages or
these are notebooks I guess I personally
don't like this as much as the
notability equivalent so notability you
have these bigger sections called
dividers which is what these little
drop-down menus are then within dividers
you have subjects so respiratory disease
one risk for these two and then within
those subjects you have all these
different notes so for example I have
important stuff one of my case based
discussions some lectures over here and
I find this level of organization a lot
more neat a lot more simple and
intuitive to understand and work through
and so it works better for me I
personally really like notabilities
organizational structure and on good
notes and then the last thing that I
want to say about good notes five is
that it's lacking a sister or brother
app on Mac iOS or on PC where you can
look on your notes online on the
computer which is kind of frustrating
for me actually with notability what
I'll often do is have some of my
previous notes that I want to look at
open on my computer and then some other
notes that I'm currently writing open on
my iPad and that way I can have both at
the same time if I'm somewhere without
my iPad and I want to look at my notes
on my laptop then I can't really do that
all right and I think that concludes
everything that I wanted to say about
good notes v in comparison to note
ability in conclusion is good notes v
good enough to get me to switch over and
use it as my primary note-taking app and
I think for me the answer is going to be
no although good notes has a lot of good
features sort of separate to each other
it doesn't package them into one
finished
that combines all those good features
and makes an app that I would want to
use on a daily basis what I wish would
happen is that notability would adopt to
those two features of the eraser that
just gets used once and switches back to
the pen and then also having your
favorite colors stacked at the top of
the toolbar I hope you guys have found
this video useful
I hope it's given you a little bit more
of an insight into comparing good notes
and notes abilities that you guys can
hopefully make a better informed
decision about which one you want to
purchase and use as your note-taking app
if you guys have enjoyed this video
please do leave a like on it and
subscribe to my channel to more content
from me in the future if you guys
enjoyed these iPad related videos
there's a lot more topics that I can
cover on them so do let me know in a
comment down below that's it for me
thank you guys so much for watching hope
you're having a wonderful day and I'll
see you in the next one peace